 A revolution m psychology began in the late
1960s and exploded in the 1970s. When I
wrote the first edition of Psycho-Cybernetics in 1960, I was at the
forefront of a sweeping change in the fields of psychology, psychiatry,
and medicine. New theories and concepts concerning the "self' began
emerging from the work and findings of clinical psychologists, practicing psychiatrists, and even cosmetic or so-called "plastic surgeons"
like myself. New methods growing out of these findings resulted in
dramatic changes in personality, in health, and even in basic abilities
and talents. Chronic failures became successful. "F" students changed
into "straight A" pupils with no extra tutoring. Shy, retiring, inhibited
personalities became happy and outgoing. At the time, I was quoted
in the January 1959 issue of Cosmopolitan Magazine, in which T. F.
J ames summarized these results obtained by various psychologists and
MDs as follows:
Understanding the psychology of the self can mean the difference between success and failure, love and hate, bitterness and happiness. The discovery of the real self can rescue a crumbling marriage,
recreate a faltering career, transform viCtims of "personality failure."
On another plane, discovering your real self means the difference
between freedom and the compulsions of conformity. 
2 Chapter One
This was barely predictive of everything that has occurred in the
four decades that followed.
When Psycho-Cybernetics was first published, if you visited a
bookstore to obtain a copy, you might have found it nestled on an
obscure shelf with only a dozen or so other so-called "self-help"
books. Today, of course, "self-help" is one of the largest sections in the
entire bookstore. Psychologists, psychiatrists, and therapists have proliferated, new specialists have emerged, such as sports psychologists
and corporate performance coaches, and the stigma of seeking such
help has disappeared to such an extent that in some circles doing so is
trendy. Self-help psychology has become so popular it even has found
a place in television infomercials! 